6.0 English From BBCLearningEnglish.com
10.0 English From BBCLearningEnglish.com
I guess it's not every day that you end up offending a king, but let's say you did.
Would you know how to apologise to her?
Recently, I'm Ghana, a journalist made some comments on television about the king of the Asanta tribe,
and soon she found herself at his powers apologizing.
The presenter says it's not every day that you offend a king.
The phrase it's not every day that highlights that what's happened is very unusual.
So how do apologies change from culture to culture?
Well, that's what we'll be finding out in this episode along with some useful new words and phrases.
And remember, you'll find all the vocabulary from this episode on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com
Now, I have a question for you, Beth. We know that people from different countries apologise in different ways,
but what might someone do to say sorry if they were from India? Would they offer a gift?
Be, pull their earlobes or see bow down.
Oh, I am going to guess. See bow down.
Okay, well, we'll find out if you're right at the end of the program.
Let's return to Afia Pukur, the journalist who criticise the king of the Asanti tribe.
Her comments divided opinion in Ghana, but eventually, Afia decided to say sorry to the king,
following strict traditional rules that she dress in black and apologise kneeling down on her knees.
Afia's story shows the influence of culture on how people say sorry.
Let's listen now as three BBC journalists from different countries explain to world service program the fifth floor,
how to say sorry in Merkel.
I would say that Pakistanis generally, they're not really expressive, and we're also very cheeky.
So what we generally do is we would slide an apology in the middle of a conversation,
and then very quickly we want to do a new topic, so that we don't have to sort of be very upfront about it.
In Russia, we also have a tradition called forgiveness Sunday, which happens on the last Sunday before Easter.
The tradition is that you call your family and friends and apologize for any sorrows you've caused.
In Korea, the way of saying sorry varies depending on the relationship between the speaker and the listener due to the complex and horrific system in the language.
In many cases, we say Chaisongamida.
This is used in formal situations, or with people we don't know well, and we often bow when seeing just Hamida.
Journalists are some mhmood, thinks apologizing in Pakistan is different because people are not expressive.
They don't usually show what they think or feel.
Rather, he says Pakistanis tend to be cheeky, an adjective meaning slightly rude, but in a funny playful way.
In Pakistan, people sometimes avoid being upfront about what they've done.
If you're upfront about something, you speak openly about it, so everyone knows your feelings and intentions.
Moving now to Russia, the journalist Lisa Faust describes a tradition called forgiveness Sunday,
when people apologize to friends and family for sorrows they have caused.
Sorrows are sources of sadness or regret.
And finally, in Korea, how you say sorry depends on who you're apologizing to.
Korea has a complicated, on a horrific system dictating how people above you in the social order should be addressed.
On a horrific means showing respect and honour to someone.
Well, there's a saying that sorry is the hardest word, but who knew there was so many ways to say it?
Yes, and it's not just words.
If you're really sorry, you do something to make things right, like giving a small gift.
So Neil, what do people in India do?
What's the answer to your question?
Yes, well, I asked what people in India do to apologize and what answer did you give me, Beth?
I said bow down. Was that right?
I'm afraid that was the wrong answer. You should apologize to me for that.
It is, in fact, be in India, it's common to tug your earlobes when apologizing.
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned, starting with the idiom.
It's not every day that which is used to say that something is very unusual.
An expressive person shows what they think or feel.
The adjective cheeky means slightly rude in a funny, playful way.
When you are up front about something, you speak openly and clearly, so people know your true intentions.
Soros are sources of sadness or regret.
And finally, the adjective on a rific means showing respect and honour to someone.
Well, I'm sorry to say that once again, our six minutes are up.
But if you are ready for more, just head over to our website,
BBCLearningEnglish.com for a quiz and a worksheet for this episode.
Bye for now.
Goodbye.
6.0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com